---
title: "It’s Awesome for a Reason"
blurb: "The Awesome Bar is a paradigm shift. Otherwise it is awesome. That is all."
tags:
  - mozilla
  - firefox
  - awesome
old_permalink: "articles/4-its_awesome_for_a_reason"
---

Firefox 3 came out yesterday to much fanfare and "a world record":http://www.spreadfirefox.com/en-US/worldrecord.  The world seems to like it, at least in general, though I have heard a bit of complaining.  One thing in particular: the "Awesome Bar":http://blog.mozilla.com/blog/2008/04/21/a-little-something-awesome-about-firefox-3/.

This has been the number one complaint I've heard, and to be fair, I can't blame people.  When I first downloaded a beta (or maybe a nightly) back in January, I HATED the Awesome Bar.  I spent a couple hours with it and bitched to Rob (who was and still is an intern).  I just wanted URLs to be matched as they always had been, with the first few letters and then a bunch of arrow pressing as I chose the right page.  By the end of those hours I was frustrated as all hell and wanted out.  Rob told me about the "oldbar":https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/6227 extension - which makes the Awesome Bar behave much like the old location bar - and installed it.  I used Firefox & Safari roughly equally over the next couple weeks, and then I interviewed with Mozilla.

During one of my interviews (with "Mike Connor":http://steelgryphon.com/blog/ I believe), I was asked, "If you could change one thing about Firefox, what would it be?"  I thought about it a second, and the first thing that came to mind was my new found hatred of the Awesome Bar, so I said that.  I explained myself, and said some of the things that I said to Rob.  My biggest gripe was that I just wanted URLs to be matched before titles of pages.  Mike talked a bit about how it worked and how it used machine learning to adapt to how I used it.  So if I just behaved like I used to and chose the page I was looking for, it would remember that for next time.  He said it was still being tweaked and it wasn't perfect yet, but that I really should give it another shot.

So I did, and since I knew a little bit more about it, I felt a little less apprehensive about using it.  So I set out to "train" it.  I bit the bullet and got some inaccurate results over the next week or two.  At one point in there I opened my browser and could not for the life of me think of the domain or URL for a page I knew I had been to a couple days before.  I did however know what the page was about (it was something specific about Java or some such nonsense for an assignment).  So I just typed the topic into the Awesome Bar.  Luckily the word I was thinking had been in the page title, and -viola- voil&agrave; - the first result after I had typed the word was the exact page I was looking for.  It had proved itself to me.  I probably would have spent another 20 minutes trying to remember exactly what I searched for on Google.  I've been using it since and absolutely love it.

So just give it a shot and quit complaining.  Yes, it is a complete paradigm shift.  But it's not called the Awesome Bar for nothing; it really is awesome once you give it a chance.
