---
title: "Status Update: September 25, 2009"
blurb: "Per Tab Network Prioritization &amp; Other Stuff"
tags:
  - mozilla
  - firefox
  - statusupdate
old_permalink: "articles/23-status_update_sept_25_2009"
---

I haven't updated on the blog recently, so here's the past 3 weeks all at once.

The week of September 7, I was working on a "couple":https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=514751 "blockers":https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=497730.

The week of September 14, I was in Pittsburgh recruiting at the Carnegie Mellon TOC(Technical Opportunities Conference) (job fair). I also did some work on Per Tab Network Prioritization ("bug 514490":https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=514490) and a password manager performance bug ("bug 492197":https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=492197).

This past week I worked on a few different things. I finished the password manager bug (which I hadn't finished because of a non-syntax-error-syntax-error). While helping "Henrik":http://www.hskupin.info/ as he was using the storage API, "Shawn":http://shawnwilsher.com/ mentioned that one of the methods I used was deprecated (though never explicitly). So I filed "the bugs":https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=518434 and "fixed the places":http://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/pushloghtml?changeset=5e6a413226d2 that used the deprecated code (hint: use <code>executeStep()</code> instead of <code>step()</code> and don't use <code>mozIStorageStatementWrapper</code>). Filing the bugs took longer than fixing them.

But all of that was unrelated to ...

h2. Per Tab Network Prioritization Status

h3. Progress

* Made it a JS module. This was advice from "Dietrich":http://autonome.wordpress.com/ to cut down on overhead. Since it was only being used from JS code, there was no need to use XPCOM.
* Made it pref enabled. Right now it's <code>browser.networkprioritizer.enabled</code> but that's easy to change.
* Got a first pass look from Shawn, fixed a few things up.

h3. Next Steps

* Reviews. It seems like Boris is the guy for the job. Still need a browser person. Gavin said sometime after Fennec stuff, Connor said 2 weeks. Dolske said "soon", so he'll probably be the lucky guy, even if he isn't a peer.
